

The customer is not always right. This is why they seek out the advice and help of professionals. But, this is not to say that the customer is always wrong; often the customer has an idea of what they want, but does not always know the exact item or process to acheive their desired end product. The professional's, or expert's, job is to help acheive it, even if the result is not the same as the customer expected. I have experienced this personally in multiple jobs, from retail to consulting, and how well the customer understands the process can greatly change the outcome and the experience.

I find that many customers have the expectation that the expert or professional is their employee or required to produce the exact result as they have imagined it, for it is funded with their money. However, it is important for the customer to realize that they become part of the team. The more cooperative they can be with the professional, who should be working to get them an end result that is as close to their vision as is possible, the better chance they will have at arriving to a solution that makes them happy. This also means that the customer cannot be passively involved in this process. If they hand too much control over, and leave the professional/expert to make to many of the decisions, then they increase the chance that they will not be happy with the resulting product. The customer is not always right, but neither is the expert.

No matter, how much experience they have, it is important for the expert to not try to take control of the project. They might be tempted to lean heavily on to their expertise and experience, but the system will not be for them and will not be funded by them. Overlevering can lead to the customer becomming more difficult to work with as they will feel as though they are being pushed around or that their opinion is not valued. This can cause the customer to be less willing to compromise where needed and increase the chances of an unsuccessful project. In my experience, and opinion, the expert should serve as a guide, helping the customer find the best solution that will both meet their needs/expectations and be within their budget. The partnership between the expert and the customer is a delicate one; it's like a dance but where each partner leads in turn. This, one could call it symbiotic, relationship allows for the customer to get the closest result to what they are imagining while staying within the capabilities of both the expert and what is available/possible.

So, the customer is not always right, but they are not always wrong. The expert is not always right, either. A successful project requires the two/all parties find common ground when planning/deciding on the details of a project/system/product. Cooperation is the key to success and, if they are not good communicators, either side can be the cause of issues.
